viruses in nasal washes, saliva, urine and faeces for up
to 8 days after infection, and a few naive ferrets with only
indirect contact were positive for viral RNA, suggest-
ing airborne transmission”. In addition, transmission
of the virus through the ocular surface and prolonged
presence of SARS-CoV-2 viral RNA in faecal samples
were also documented'”’'*’. Coronaviruses can persist
on inanimate surfaces for days, which could also be the
case for SARS-CoV-2 and could pose a prolonged risk of
infection’’’. These findings explain the rapid geographic
spread of COVID-19, and public health interventions to
reduce transmission will provide benefit to mitigate the
epidemic, as has proved successful in China and several
other countries, such as South Korea*”'**'®.

Diagnosis

Early diagnosis is crucial for controlling the spread of
COVID-19. Molecular detection of SARS-CoV-2 nucleic
acid is the gold standard. Many viral nucleic acid detec-
tion kits targeting ORF1b (including RdRp), N, E or
S genes are commercially available'''°'”. The detection
time ranges from several minutes to hours depending
on the technology'”'*”'*"'"". The molecular detection
can be affected by many factors. Although SARS-CoV-2
has been detected from a variety of respiratory sources,
including throat swabs, posterior oropharyngeal saliva,
nasopharyngeal swabs, sputum and bronchial fluid,
the viral load is higher in lower respiratory tract sam-
ples''’®"'*'®, In addition, viral nucleic acid was also
found in samples from the intestinal tract or blood even
when respiratory samples were negative''’. Lastly, viral
load may already drop from its peak level on disease
onset’. Accordingly, false negatives can be common
when oral swabs and used, and so multiple detection
methods should be adopted to confirm a COVID-19
diagnosis''”''*. Other detection methods were there-
fore used to overcome this problem. Chest CT was
used to quickly identify a patient when the capacity of
molecular detection was overloaded in Wuhan. Patients
